In this lecture, we look at how to handle accordions with selenium.
So what are accordions?
An accordion is a graphical control element comprising a vertical stack list of items.
It's a technique often used to organize and make use of limited space on a web page.
The user often has control to expand, to retract the accordion, to show a hypertext.
So how to handle accordions?
Simple.
We can often just use a double click command to reveal or retract the accordion embedded text.
So an example of this is used in driver.
They'll find element by CSF selector and simply using the dot click command.
There is no need for a special approach and we may have to account for performance.
For example, if we try an open and close tabs multiple times in quick succession, then it could cause
unexpected behavior.
We can resolve this by using whites, which is explained in the next section of this course.
But for now, let's get some practice and try it out.
So the first thing I'm going to do is walk you through the test.
So I'm going to open Chrome and go to automation test and website and I'm going to click on the accordion
button.
So we've briefly seen this page in the past, and all I'm going to do in this lecture is open and close
the tabs, and I'm going to do that number of times.
So you're not going to see much new content in this particular lecture in terms of finding a selector.
But I will introduce you to a concept by using for loops to be able to do this.
So I'm going to minimize this Web page now, and I'm going to open up a clips and I'm going to copy
and paste the class in the last lecture, and I'm going to call this L 12, lecture 12 and I'm going
to call it accordion and then click.
Okay.
I'm going to double click that class and I'm going to remove all the content from the last lecture that
we don't need.
And the reason why it is more content here than what was in the last video is because I've gone through
and added comments to explain what the code does so that when you refer to the code, you have an understanding
of what we were doing.
So I'm going to remove all the codes up to the driver.
They'll get method and I think I've deleted one too many closed brackets.
I'm just going to add another one.
Right.
So the first thing I need to do is update the URL.
So I'm going to go to the web page and I'm just going to copy and paste it.
Like so.
So the most basic form that we're going to use here is to simply go to the Web page, quickly inspect.
And only get a selector.
And I'm going to click on this first accordion tab.
And if I go over to runner ups velocity, I am just going to get the first.
Yes.
Select the.
And what I'm going to write is driver dot find element via CSA selector and I provide that value and
I'm going to click it like so.
So this will come to this web page and it will click it.
And then what I want to do is then click it again.
And it's going to be the same selector.
So all I need to do is to repeat that code again, like so.
So if I try running this just to show you.
So you say open and close the accordion.
First tab.
So I'm going to close this page and I'm going to open up the Web page, but this time I'm going to focus
on the second one.
And I'm going to take that selector and I'm going to write something similar to the one above.
Drive the phone, buy it,
set a selector, provide that value, dot click.
And I'm also going to repeat that line.
So and then I'm just going to do the same for the last one.
So I am going to copy that.
I'm going to drive up a fine line of client service, a selector and copy that last value, double click.
And again, I'm going to just repeat that.
So now if I run this test, so if I save it and run it, we should see all three of them open and close
after each other.
So that happened really quickly.
But I'm going to show you a new way of we see how we repeated ourself here.
I'm going to show you a new way of how we can do something similar.
In a afforded.
So I'm going to write it for an in brackets.
INT I equal zero.
Semicolon.
There is less than ten semicolon on a plus plus and an outside that I'm going to have opening and close
in brackets.
So if I was to take this first line and copy it here.
And meanwhile, common comments out these lines.
So let's see what happens when I run this.
So you can see that code is run in.
And it ran a number of times.
And the reason for that is using a for loop.
What is doing is, is signing an integer variable called AIA and it's assigning a value of zero.
And then what is doing is checking a condition.
So if I.
Is less than the number ten an increment that value by one, and it keeps on going into a loop until
this condition is no longer true.
So when it is ten, it's no longer less than ten.
And so this code inside my run.
So let's see if I try to add this line to the forehead
and if I do the same for one of the other lines, the other taps as well.
And if I save it, let's try running it and see what happens.
And you can see by simply having a follow up, I was able to repeat the pressing of those accordion
tabs a number of times, and so that's avoided the need to write repetitive code.
But the key thing with working with accordions is that we only need to use the dot click command because
all we're doing as a user is simply clicking it to expand and attract it.
So I hope that was quite useful for you just to see a follow loop and to see the simplicity of accordions.
And I look forward to speaking to you in the next lecture.